feat(Worklets): Synchronizable docs (#8640)
software-mansion/react-native-reanimated: docs/docs-worklets/docs/memory/Synchronizable.mdx

---

> sidebar_position: 42 # Use alphabetical order

Reviewer: does this number magically enable alphabetical order in Docsaurus?

Synchronizable can be obtained exclusively or non-exclusively. Trying to access it from multiple threads at once can lead to blocking.

<SVGDiagram>![Synchronizable](/img/synchronizable.svg)</SVGDiagram>

<figcaption style={{ textAlign: 'center' }}>
  Synchronizable memory model
</figcaption>

<details>
<summary>Type definitions</summary>

```typescript
type Synchronizable<TValue = unknown> = {
  getDirty(): TValue;
  getBlocking(): TValue;
  setBlocking(value: TValue | ((prev: TValue) => TValue)): void;
  lock(): void;
  unlock(): void;
};
```

</details>

## Reference

```tsx
import { createSynchronizable, scheduleOnUI } from 'react-native-worklets';

// RN Runtime, JS thread

const synchronizable = createSynchronizable({ a: 42 });

scheduleOnUI(() => {
  // UI Runtime, UI thread
  const value = synchronizable.getBlocking();
  console.log(value); // {a: 24}
});

// Could execute either before or after the UI Runtime reads the value.
synchronizable.setBlocking({ a: 24 });
```

<SVGDiagram>![Synchronizable flow](/img/synchronizable-flow.svg)</SVGDiagram>

<figcaption style={{ textAlign: 'center' }}>
  Possible flow of operations for the above example, assuming that `getBlocking`

>   function executed first. Time axis is not to scale.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Possible flow of operations for the above example, assuming that `getBlocking`
  function executes first. Time axis is not to scale.
```

if i understend it well, it probably should be `executes`
